Perfect Slow Cooker Pot Roast - Cooking Classy
Menu
Search
Submit
RecipesAppetizersBreakfastChicken RecipesDessertsHealthy RecipesMain DishSeafoodSidesSlow CookerSoupsVideosAboutSubscribe
Search
Close Menu
HomeRecipesAppetizersBreakfastChicken RecipesDessertsHealthy RecipesMain DishSeafoodSidesSlow CookerSoupsVideosAboutSubscribeContactFacebookPinterestInstagramYouTube
Search
Submit
16 Quick & Easy 30 Minute Recipes! (plus weekly recipe updates)
Your email
Home » Recipes » Beef and Pork
Perfect Slow Cooker Pot Roast
Published March 28, 2019. Updated September 20, 2024
This post may contain affiliate links. Read our disclosure policy.
Jump to RecipePinShareCommentsPrintSaveSaved
Perfect Slow Cooker Pot Roast is the ultimate comfort food! It’s a super hearty, deliciously flavorful meal in one that’s sure to satisfy even the pickiest of eaters.
This is just classic, homestyle, stick-to-your-ribs good food made with basic, real ingredients. Plus it’s the best thing to come home to, cooked in the crock pot and ready to eat after a long day! My perfect slow cooker pot roast is an excellent option for lazy Sundays or busy winter workdays.
Crock Pot Roast Recipe
I’ve been making slow cooker pot roast for as long as I can remember. But in the beginning, I was doing it all wrong.
We’ve all had the super easy, lazy slow cooker roast that skips the browning in a skillet, but once you try it browned you’ll never look back! Browing helps to seal in the moisture and creates the most delicious texture for a juicy pot roast.
Perfect Slow Cooker Pot Roast Video
Another mistake was using onion powder and garlic powder in place of the real thing. Those have their place, but not here. The fresh onion and garlic add so much flavor to a pot roast.
And have you ever tried crock pot roast with fresh herbs? It’s so much better than dried, so it’s worth the splurge. You can often even find them bundled together in a blended package to make this slow cooker pot roast recipe even easier.
Last but not least—the vegetables. I was always adding potatoes in cubes and using Russet potatoes. How does that turn out in the end? Potato soup! Instead, using a waxier potato (Yukons) and keeping the potatoes whole will help keep your potatoes moist and fork tender, but not gluey. Cut them up at the end if you’d like, or just serve them whole.
Everyone will be too busy savoring each bite to care about the potato size details. This is the ultimate pot roast recipe! Simple ingredients yet layers of rich, satisfying flavor.
Ingredients for Perfect Crock Pot Roast
Chuck roast – I like to use a wider shorter roast here, then the bed of vegetables can just lay atop.
Olive oil – for searing the roast and sautéing the aromatics.
Salt and pepper – season roast with a fair amount of salt, otherwise it can taste a little flat.
Yellow onion – I prefer to saute the onions before adding to slow cooker remove the raw bite. Then I like to take the onion slices out after cooking since they do get mushy but leave them if you like.
Garlic – be sure to use fresh garlic for best flavor here. Use a garlic crusher if you hate mincing.
Beef broth – I know they say not to use canned beef broth but chicken broth just doesn’t seem right here. I personally like the flavor just fine.
Worcestershire sauce – if you don’t have this you can skip it. It just adds a little hint of depth.
Fresh thyme, rosemary and parsley – fresh herbs do taste best here but if you don’t want to pay the higher price use 1/3 the amount listed of dried herbs.
Yukon gold potatoes (AKA yellow potatoes) – red potatoes will work great here as well. I just prefer the appetizing color of the yellow.
Carrots – thicker carrots work better here as they won’t get mushy with this lengthy cook time.
Cornstarch – this is optional but preferred for best results. It’s turns a broth with an almost water-like consistency into a perfectly thickened gravy that clings to the meat and vegetables.
How to Make the Best Pot Roast in the Crock Pot
Brown roast, add to slow cooker: Heat 1 Tbsp olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat.
Dab roast dry with paper towels, season all over with salt and pepper.
Sear roast in pot until browned on both sides, about 4 – 5 minutes per side. Transfer roast to slow cooker.
Saute aromatics, layer them over roast: Add remaining 1/2 Tbsp olive oil to pot. Add onion and saute 2 minutes, add garlic and saute 30 seconds longer.
Pour onion mixture over roast in slow cooker.
Make the most of those browned bits: Return pot to heat, pour in beef broth, Worcestershire, thyme and rosemary and cook about 15 seconds, just long enough to scrape up browned bits from the bottom of the pot, this will add lots of flavor to the broth. Remove pot from heat.
Layer vegetables into slow cooker: Layer potatoes and carrots over onion layer in slow cooker, pour beef broth evenly over top then season with salt and pepper.
Cook low and slow: Cover slow cooker and cook on low heat until roast and vegetables are tender, about 8 – 9 hours.
Remove roast and veggies, shred roast, cut up potatoes if desired.
How to Thicken Gravy for Pot Roast
I prefer a thick gravy, so I always thicken the broth after cooking. I’ve tried several different methods for thickening, and I prefer the cornstarch route since you don’t have to add extra fat (butter for flour) and I prefer to thicken after cooking.
If you try to thicken with flour or cornstarch from the beginning it doesn’t thicken properly and can leave a floury or cornstarch flavor behind. Here’s how you’ll thicken the gravy:
Whisk cornstarch with 3 Tbsp beef broth then pour into saucepan. Bring to a simmer, stirring constantly, let simmer 30 – 60 seconds.
Plate roast and vegetables, pour gravy over the top and sprinkle with parsley.
Can I use a Different Cut of Meat for Perfect Slow Cooker Pot Roast?
For best results stick with the chuck roast for this recipe. Other roasts won’t be as tender.
Can I Use Baby Carrots in my Slow Cooker Pot Roast?
I have also made this using a bag of baby carrots but only go for a bag of the thick baby carrots. You know what I mean. We’ve all seen those pencil thin worthless bags of baby carrots. Use the hearty thick ones (check the organic section, they aren’t much more expensive and they taste better).
Can I Add Wine to my Slow Cooker Pot Roast?
If you’d like you can also add 1/2 cup red wine to this recipe along with the beef broth.
Can I Cook my Slow Cooker Pot Roast on High Heat?
I only recommend low heat cooking for the most tender results. I’ve tested with high heat cooking and it’s just not the same.
Can I Cook this Pot Roast recipe in the Oven?
I have an oven method shared HERE.
When should I make Slow Cooker Pot Roast?
Slow cooker meals are especially good for busy days where you can get everything started early and have a delicious dinner ready for you at the end of the day. I like pot roast on cold and cozy Sundays through the fall and winter.
How many people can I feed with a Slow Cooker Pot Roast?
This slow cooker pot roast calls for a 3 lb chuck roast and should serve 6 people. Larger roasts can feed more people, as long as you have a large enough crock pot or roasting pan.
What Should I Serve with Crock Pot Roast?
Really you don’t need anything else to go with this it’s such a hearty dish on it’s own, but if you’d like serve it with a side salad, some steamed asparagus for a nice green color, or some buttered homemade bread.
More Delicious Slow Cooker Recipes You’ll Love:
Beef Stew
Rotisserie Style Chicken
Slow Cooker Ribs
Pulled Pork
Slow Cooker Chili
Follow Cooking ClassyFacebookPinterestInstagramYouTube
16 Quick & Easy 30 Minute Recipes! (plus weekly recipe updates)
Your email
4.94 from 191 votes
Print Recipe
Slow Cooker Pot Roast
Review Recipe
Pin
SaveSaved
Slow Cooker Pot Roast is the ultimate comfort food! It's a super hearty, deliciously flavorful meal in one that's sure to satisfy even the pickiest of eaters. This is just classic, homestyle, stick to your ribs good food made with basic, real ingredients. Plus it's the best thing to come home to, cooked and ready to eat, after a long day.
Watch the video
Servings: 6
Prep25 minutes minutesCook8 hours hoursReady in: 8 hours hours 25 minutes minutes
Equipmentslow cooker (I use this Crock-Pot 6-quart Cook and Carry)
Ingredients1 1/2 Tbsp olive oil, divided1 (3 lb) chuck roastSalt and freshly ground black pepper1 medium yellow onion, peeled, halved and cut into thick slices5 garlic cloves, minced (1 1/2 Tbsp)1 1/4 cups beef broth2 tsp Worcestershire sauce1 Tbsp minced fresh thyme1 Tbsp minced fresh rosemary2.5 lbs small yukon gold potatoes, left whole5 medium carrots (about 1 lb), peeled and cut into 1-inch pieces*2 1/2 Tbsp cornstarch mixed with 3 Tbsp beef broth, optional, for thickening gravy2 Tbsp chopped fresh parsley
InstructionsHeat 1 Tbsp olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Dab roast dry with paper towels, season all over with salt and pepper.Sear roast in pot until browned on both sides, about 4 - 5 minutes per side. Transfer roast to slow cooker. Add remaining 1/2 Tbsp olive oil to pot. Add onion and saute 2 minutes, add garlic and saute 30 seconds longer. Pour onion mixture over roast in slow cooker. Return pot to heat, pour in beef broth, Worcestershire, thyme and rosemary and cook about 15 seconds, just long enough to scrape up browned bits from the bottom of the pot. Remove from heat.Layer potatoes and carrots over onion layer in slow cooker, pour beef broth evenly over top then season with salt and pepper.Cover slow cooker and cook on low heat until roast and vegetables are tender, about 8 - 9 hours.Remove roast and vegetables, shred roast (discard fat) and cut potatoes if desired.If you'd like to thicken the broth and make a gravy, pour broth from slow cooker through a fine mesh strainer into a small saucepan**. Heat over medium-high heat. Whisk cornstarch with 3 Tbsp beef broth then pour into saucepan. Bring to a simmer, stirring constantly, let simmer 30 - 60 seconds. Plate roast and vegetables, pour gravy over the top and sprinkle with parsley.
Notes*Thicker carrots will work better here. They won't get too soft.
**I like to measure first to to see if I have the correct amount so I know if it will thicken properly, there should be 2 cups liquid, if you need more just stir in a little more beef broth to reach the correct amount. I also like to skim the extra fat from the top of the liquid. If you don't care to measure first you can always thin with a little broth if needed or thicken with a little extra cornstarch/broth mixture.
Nutrition Facts
Slow Cooker Pot Roast
Amount Per Serving
Calories 600
Calories from Fat 270
% Daily Value*
Fat 30g46%Saturated Fat 12g75%Cholesterol 156mg52%Sodium 453mg20%Potassium 1791mg51%Carbohydrates 34g11%Fiber 6g25%Sugar 3g3%Protein 45g90%
Vitamin A 8685IU174%Vitamin C 30.5mg37%Calcium 133mg13%Iron 11.6mg64% * Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet.
Nutrition values are estimates only. See full disclaimer here.
Course: Main CourseCuisine: AmericanKeyword: Crock Pot Roast, Slow Cooker Pot Roast
Author: Jaclyn
Categorized:
Beef and Pork
Fall Faves
Main Dish
Slow Cooker
Videos
Tagged:
beef
beef broth
carrots
garlic
onions
parsley
potatoes
rosemary
thyme
You Might Also Like:
Pot Roast with Potatoes and Carrots
Slow Cooker French Dip Sandwiches
Slow Cooker Shredded Beef Tacos
Balsamic and Honey Pulled Pork Sandwiches
Leave a Comment Cancel reply
Rate this recipe
Rate this recipe
Comment * Name *
Email *
Notify me of follow-up comments by email.
Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
674 Comments
Mona Lamberson
I don’t have a problem with the recipe itself, however, the direction indicate an entirely different meal than presented on the website. IE: picture shows cut potatoes, yet recipe calls for whole uncut potatoes.
September 23, 2024Reply
Jaclyn
Sorry for the confusion, the potatoes are cut at the end for serving.
September 23, 2024Reply
Rosie Tacdol
Loved this recipe❤️easy, quick, and yummy.
September 8, 2024Reply
James
I will try this one, but I will use larger Yukon Gold potatoes, peel them and cut them in half.
September 4, 2024Reply
Hannah
Delicious! How long do I cook this on high if I’m late to getting it in?
September 2, 2024Reply
Jaclyn
High heat cooking is usually half that of low heat, but note your roast won’t be as tender on high heat cooking so I recommend sticking with low heat for best results.
September 2, 2024Reply
Martin Burkey
Jaclyn,
Sorry I didn’t see your reply for some reason until today. It turned out great, partially cooked roast and all. I pulled the pot out of the fridge and popped it into the cooker, let it go for 10 hours on low, then decided it wasn’t tender enough and put it on high for an hour. Turned out great. The red cooking wine and fresh herbs really set it off.
August 25, 2024Reply
Jaclyn
I’m so happy it turned out great Martin! Thanks for replying how it turned out!
August 26, 2024Reply
Joe
Great !
August 24, 2024Reply
Martin
Could I prep everything the day before till it’s ready in the slow cooker and stick it in the refrigerator, then put it on the next morning to cook all day?
August 18, 2024Reply
Jaclyn
For food safety it is not recommend to partially cook the beef. You can cut up the carrots, onions, garlic and herbs ahead of time.
August 19, 2024Reply
Olivia
If I don’t have fresh rosemary and thyme, can I use dried rosemary and thyme?
August 1, 2024Reply
Jaclyn
Yes use 1/3 the amounts.
August 2, 2024Reply
More Comments
Welcome to Cooking Classy™ Here you’ll find a collection of delicious recipes that your family will love, all tested and approved by me, Jaclyn, creator of this food blog. Cooking is my passion so please follow along and share what I create!
Trending Right Now
The Best White Chicken Chili
Perfect Slow Cooker Pot Roast
No Bake Cookies
Simple Taco Soup
16 Quick & Easy 30 Minute Recipes! (plus weekly recipe updates)
Your email
© 2024 COOKING CLASSY™PrivacyContactDesign by cre8d
FacebookPinterestInstagramYouTube